hello everyone this is mr p on today's
lesson we're going to take a look at
the structure of a short story
so let's get started what is a short
story
and what are the elements it is a brief
narrative containing characters
a simple plot and a conflict which leads
to a climax and a swift conclusion
the five elements are characters
setting conflict theme
and plot
let's take a look at characters first
people animal things that are involved
in the plot of the story
[Music]
there can be talking animals fantasy
characters
etc the protagonist
is the main character it is usually the
good
guy the antagonist instead
creates conflict for the main character
it is usually the bad guy
here we have nemo imo is a protagonist
or cinderella also is a protagonist
but we have the joker the joker
was the antagonist and recently we have
seen him
as a protagonist of a movie
[Music]
so the setting is the time the time of
day
the season present past future
the location the country the planet
the town the buildings it helps create
the mood
and atmosphere of the story
conflict the main problem the
protagonist
is trying to solve something troubling
or bad
that has happened in the story conflicts
are usually resolved
at the end of the story zap
types of conflict man versus men
here pay attention because it is written
men
but it can be also woman versus woman
we have fewer examples like batman
against
the joker for example superman against
the antagonist
man versus nature again here can be
woman versus nature example
titanic so titanic hit an iceberg
so we have men versus nature
tornado the movie tornado
man versus himself for example in the
joker
he fights against himself to find a
solution to his problem
or the lion king for example
man versus society so again here we have
the joker
so as you can see there can be many
types of conflict in one story
or robin hood also man versus society
and here i wrote there can be many
types of conflict in a story
theme what the author wants you to learn
or know a broad idea about life
usually not stated it must be guessed
examples be good to everyone do not be
greedy
power corrupts love takes faith
etc now let's take a look at the plot
the plot consists of five parts
introduction or exposition is the
setting
the background and the characters
the rising action is the conflict where
suspense is created the climax
is the highest point of the story the
deciding factor
in the falling action the protagonist
completes
the action then the resolution is the
final end
the solution of the story so how does
the blood diagram look like
well it looks like a mountain we have
the exposition at the beginning
then the rising action then the climax
you reach the top then the falling
action
and the resolution is the end of the
story
so introduction or exposition this is
where you must introduce the setting
so when and where the background
a set of events created for the plot
preceding and leading up to the plot
the characters the protagonist or
protagonists
antagonists or antagonists
is a choice so racing action
it is a series of significant incidents
that produce suspense interest
and tension in a narrative in literary
works
a rising action includes all decisions
characters flaws and background
situations that together
create turns and twists which in turn
lead to a climax
so the climax it is often identified
as the highest point of interest in a
story
at this point the conflict is at the
highest point of tension
then we have the falling action it
happens right after the climax
when the main problem of the story is
resolved
the falling action ends the short story
resolves
the unanswered situations and leads
toward the closure
and finally we have the resolution
it is where the main problem is resolved
the resolution occurs after the falling
action and is typically
where the story ends well
so that's it for today if you haven't
subscribed to my channel please
do if you like the lesson please hit on
the like button
if you want to share it please do
thank you very much for watching and see
you next
lesson have a nice day bye bye